So, let's go ahead
and practice using CloudFormation.
So, very important, first thing you need to do
is to select the US East, Northern Virginia,
us-east-1 region.
And the reason I want you to be in us-east-1
is that all the templates have been designed
for that region, especially when talking about AMI IDs,
which are region-specific,
so just for the sake of learning,
please use Northern Virginia, us-east-1.
Okay, so next, let's first have a look at CloudFormation.
So, this is a service.
As you can see, I currently have zero stacks.
You may have some stacks if you already use Beanstalk,
or stuff like this,
but it doesn't matter if you have zero or more.
So, let's go ahead and create a stack.
And we have several options,
we can choose an existing template,
or use a sample template,
or build directly from Application Composer.
We're going to use a sample template
just so I can show you exactly what CloudFormation
is made of.
And then, in the list of sample templates,
you can use, for example, Multi_AZ_Simple, WordPress blog.
It doesn't really matter what you choose,
but select this one. And we're not going to launch it,
but we're going to click here to view it
in Application Composer.
So, once we are in Application Composer,
we get to see how our application is made.
We get to see it visually,
and as well with code.
So, let me show you first the code.
So, you click here on Template,
and we have the option to choose YAML or JSON.
So I prefer YAML, but some people prefer JSON,
but I prefer YAML for the readability,
and this is what we're going to do in this course.
And so this entire file right here is your YAML template
of your CloudFormation file.
And as you can see, there's a lot of code,
we have a lot of things to look at,
and right now, we don't know anything about CloudFormation.
So, don't worry too much about this,
but later on in this course,
you'll be able to understand at least some of it.
So, this template is actually rendering into components,
and these components can be a lot of things.
And so this is why you can see here in the Canvas
what these components are.
So, if you were to zoom in, for example,
you see here we have a WebServerSecurityGroup,
a LaunchConfig, a WebServerGroup.
Here we have a database instance,
a database security group, and so on.
So, if you click on it, you can see, for example,
that there are some resource configuration
directly from the CloudFormation templates that are here.
So, bottom line is,
you have a direct representation
of your CloudFormation template
directly in a visual setting,
which is very nice.
So now we know that this code right here
corresponds to some resources in AWS.
So now, instead, let's go back to CloudFormation.
So we're not going to deploy the template,
because it would be useless,
and it would cost us some money.
Instead we're going to create a stack,
and this time we're going to use the code
that I've provided.
So first, let's have a look at the files we have.
So within your code, go to CloudFormation,
and you will find 0-just-ec2.yaml,
and open this file.
And this is our first YAML file.
So, let's have a look at what it does.
So, we have Resources,
and this is the mandatory thing
you need to have in your CloudFormation templates.
And then you have a name
of your first CloudFormation resource named MyInstance.
The type of MyInstance is AWS::EC2::Instance,
this right here.
And by the way, all the popups you see
is just made of VS Code,
and the CloudFormation plugin for VS Code,
but don't worry if you don't have it.
So, the type is EC2 instance.
And then we have Properties.
And so we're saying, hey, please create an EC2 instance,
and the first thing is that the availability zone
must be us-east-1a,
the ImageId AMI ID should be this AMI,
and the InstanceType should be t2.micro.
And these three parameters
are enough for us to start using
and creating an EC2 instance,
in which we have specified a few parameters.
So as you can see,
nothing has been decided and defined in the console,
only through code.
So, let's upload a template file,
and let's choose 0-just-ec2.yaml.
And we're going to name it EC2InstanceDemo.
And Next.
And right now we have no tags, no permissions,
we are not going to look at these settings either,
or those, they will come in due time
when we look at the rest of the lectures in CloudFormation.
So, right now, we just have a template.
The template is ready,
as you can see, it has been uploaded to Amazon S3 by AWS.
So when we click on upload a file, it goes to S3,
and then CloudFormation is referencing this file
in Amazon S3.
And finally, if we're good to go, then we click on Submit.
And voila, our first stack is being created.
So now, as you can see in Events, we have one event,
which is that the stack is being created.
And if I refresh this, as you can see,
there is MyInstance, CREATE_IN_PROGRESS,
and it was very quick,
now MyInstance is in CREATE_COMPLETE.
And what that means
is that the EC2 instance has been created.
Now, how do I access it?
Well, if you click on Resources,
here, you see that one resource has been created,
and the Physical ID is right here,
and if you click on it,
this takes you directly into the Amazon EC2 Console
for you to look at this EC2 instance
that has been created by CloudFormation.
So, as we can see,
the instance type is t2.micro, just as you requested it.
If we have a look at the availability zone,
which is, I'm not exactly sure where it's going to be,
yeah, right here, us-east-1a.
And if you have a look at the AMI,
it's going to be using the Amazon image
that we've requested, exactly that one,
which is Amazon Linux 2023.
So, this EC2 instance was created
exactly as it was requested in the CloudFormation template.
On top of it, if you look at Tags,
you can see that this instance
has been tagged by CloudFormation.
We have the stack ID, the logical ID, and the stack name,
that have been tagged properly,
so, stack name is EC2InstanceDemo.
The logical ID of my resource is MyInstance,
and then the stack ID
is a link to the ID of my CloudFormation stack.
So, now going back here,
we can have a look at the Stack Info,
the Events, which is all the events that happened
to my creation of my stack,
the Resources, which is linked to the resources
that are being created.
Outputs, we can only have nothing.
Parameters, nothing.
And template is the exact template as we uploaded it.
And that's it.
So, now we've seen the power of CloudFormation,
we started to create one EC2 instance
directly from the templates,
and I will see you in the next lecture
for more hands-on on CloudFormation.